(ominous music)
(chuckles)
LUNATIC: There, that should do it.
-(distant rumbling)
-Huh?
What is that?
Monica.
Anomalies in the Iron Ocean?
Yes. According to the encrypted message
from the reconnaissance unit,
the Iron Ocean is spreading around
the Orbital Elevator at a rapid pace.
Why? Is it defense-related?
On the other hand, the Iron Ocean
is vanishing around parts of North,
Central, and South Americas.
Most likely it moved underground
and accumulated at the Elevator...
Be on the lookout for even small changes.
-Roger!
COLONEL: Look at this photograph.
EMPRESS: What is it?
For some reason,
the Iron Ocean is accumulating
around the Orbital Elevator.
The Unmanned Forces
have built up their defenses.
The Iron Ocean? Why?
In any case, we can't cross the Iron Ocean
using conventional means.
With Empress' firing range,
we can probably stay
at the edge of the Ocean...
Their reinforcements
were to come from the moon
when the Elevator was completed, right?
But something is not right.
First of all, there's a limit on objects
that can be carried using the Elevator.
And there's the matter of the orbit,
so it can't always be connected.
Then what is it for?
It doesn't completely make sense,
but Artemis was originally developed
as a terraforming machine, not for combat.
COLONEL: She must have her own logic
which we can't understand.
LUNATIC: All drones should start
evacuating to the nearest Iron Ocean,
except for the Defense Unit
around the Orbital Elevator.
Prepare to evacuate for an extended period
until the operation is complete.
Switching over to Sleep Mode
in order to maintain function.
(suspenseful music)
MAN: Did the Peacebuilding Force succeed?
The robots are retreating!
What happened?
-The Iron Ocean disappeared.
-MAN: Did the Peacebuilding Army win?
Really?
We can't be sure yet.
I was hoping Empress and everyone
would be able to change things.
MIYA: This doesn't feel like a victory.
I have a bad feeling about this.
So what is the Iron Ocean, exactly?
It's a cradle for machine life forms,
filled with Arche
which are self-multiplying,
self-evolving nanobots.
COLONEL: Yeah.
The Iron Ocean incorporates all matter,
all life that exists on land,
and converts them into building materials
for the machine army.
The materials it prefers
the most are carbon-based life forms
such as humans.
The molecular structure of organisms
is reconstructed by Arche
and reprocessed into silicon-based life
as building materials.
(gasps softly)
The purpose of the Orbital Elevator...
Hm?
It might be the opposite.
Maybe they're sending something
from the Earth to the moon,
not the other way around.
That's possible, of course,
but the moon
has plenty of natural resources.
And Artemis has already built
many facilities here on Earth.
So they're sending something they don't
have on the moon but exists here.
-(gasps)
-(groans)
Humans.
EMPRESS:
The Iron Ocean containing human materials
will be siphoned to the moon.
That's probably Lunatic's goal.
What do they want to do
with the Iron Ocean once it's on the moon?
Why do you think I would know that?
-Hm...
-(clinking)
Urgent message received
from the astronomical observatory!
We are detecting weapon-like objects
being launched from the moon!
What?
It turns out that the Orbital Elevator
was connected a few hours ago.
The Iron Ocean is already
on the way to the moon.
-(gasps)
-Uh...
COLONEL: What's the Iron Ocean
got to do with the weapons?
SUBORDINATE 1: At this point, unknown.
-COLONEL: Details on the weapons?
-SUBORDINATE 1: Unknown.
Don't you have any kind of information?
The weapons from the moon are projected
to strike the Earth in about six hours.
(groans)
Six hours, huh?
EMPRESS: Colonel, can I come in?
Yes.
How is Charlotte doing?
The mind control is wearing off.
We can talk about old times now.
How's her health?
Gradually improving.
COLONEL: It seems her abilities
as a Pseudo Hemiteos Unit still remain.
Can she fight?
Due to battle wounds and
a nervous breakdown after recalibration,
she's a long way from using
her full capabilities, and besides...
It's nothing. Never mind.
Do you try to hide what you really think,
because you're a military man?
What?
Even I could sense what you wanted to say.
You don't want Charlotte
to fight in a battle even if she could.
Isn't that right?
Uh...
(grunts)
EMPRESS: My journey,
our journey started when I met you.
We're now nearing the end.
I've learned so much from you. Thank you.
(soft music)
I want to thank you, too.
I have always counted
on you whenever things got tough.
There might not be a next time
if I don't say it now.
Thank you for coming with us up until now.
You're welcome.
The Hemiteos Unit is the secret weapon
for us human beings.
(groans)
What's going on?
Nothing.
Can I have a minute?
Hm? What is it?
I came to say goodbye.
I just now received my pay
from the Peacebuilding Force
for my time with you.
I figured the time is right
for me to leave.
I see.
Well, I don't think there's anything
I can do in the current situation, anyway.
I assume from here on,
it'll be an all-out war.
Being mixed in with professional soldiers
would be weird, right?
Colonel and I were saying thanks
to each other just now.
I want to say it to you, too.
Thank you so much.
But I'm about to flee.
You said it yourself.
From here on, it'll be an all-out war.
It's natural for civilians to evacuate.
You're not fleeing.
Your words made me feel better about it.
What are you going to do now?
Oh... Uh...
I'm thinking of going to
my old haunt in San Diego.
I see. Take care of yourself.
You and everyone else, too.
Please don't die.
Please save humanity.
MONICA: Oh, and one last thing.
Traveling with you guys was not bad.
The final battle, huh?
When we lost the last battle,
Empress saved us.
STRENGTH: Yeah. I was remembering
what happened then.
DEAD MASTER: I'm going to die for Empress.
STRENGTH: It's not inevitable
that we'll die.
Let's win and go home together.
Even if I survive,
I will keep living to die for Empress.
That is what my life is worth.
Clingy chick.
What?
That's silly,
you don't have to die for me.
DEAD MASTER: Empress.
Whatever happens,
I would be happier if we all stay alive.
Angel. My angel.
Well, of course.
We were chosen to be reborn
as secret weapons for humans.
Weapons of war.
Not just weapons of war.
Empress is the last hope for humans.
Hope?
Life without hope is as tasteless
as sweets without sugar.
We lost our memories for a while,
so we understand the meaning
of hope better than anyone else.
Yeah. Let's all survive this.
We'll crush that girl on the moon.
Yes. Someday, we will for sure.
I'll be right by your side for decades,
or even centuries.
Are you awake?
I...
Don't force yourself. Stay in bed.
Okay.
Pretty soon,
this area will become a battlefield.
The Supply Units will pull out once,
so you should evacuate with them.
I want to fight, too.
You're wounded.
Strain yourself and you might die.
Empress and her friends are wounded, too.
Empress and her friends
will have to protect you while fighting.
You'll be holding them back
on the battlefield. Is that what you want?
No, I...
I know how you feel.
You want to give back, don't you?
The Educational Institution
and Lunatic used me.
I did a lot of terrible things.
I can't just do nothing.
It's okay to not do anything.
If you want to do something,
do it after the war.
Even if we win, the recovery
will take long and be full of struggles.
You can do your best, then.
(breathes sharply)
I'll let you know
when it's time to evacuate.
-Hey.
-Yes?
Can you tell me about my mom
just a little bit?
COLONEL: Yes, I will.
By the way, do you drink alcohol?
CHARLOTTE (chuckles):
Well, I am of drinking age.
(action music)
COLONEL: Self-propelled Artillery Unit,
conceal our territory by digital jamming
after inputting firing data.
All later requests for revision
should be analog.
The Orbital Elevator which is our target
isn't going anywhere, anyway.
We're in unforeseen circumstances.
The Orbital Elevator is already connected.
However, our mission has not changed.
We're sending Empress in close proximity
to the Elevator so she can destroy it.
First Battalion to the Third Battalion,
attack the Elevator from three directions.
All Hemiteos Units, including Empress
will be positioned in the First Battalion.
That will be where our military power
will be concentrated as the main force.
The Iron Ocean has accumulated
around the Orbital Elevator.
It will be impossible
to make contact with it to plant bombs.
Empress' Coil Gun
is most likely to be effective.
But we'll have
a second-best measure ready, too.
The Battalion Commander
and the Company Commander's vehicles
will be loaded with anti-tank
Thermobaric missiles.
Portable launchers
will also be loaded just in case.
Back up Empress, and when you can,
get close to the Iron Ocean
as near the Elevator as possible.
And then, fire the Thermobaric missiles.
That's the battle plan. Any questions?
(blasting)
They've started the battle.
All units, engage!
(weapons firing)
(action music)
It's started.
BLACK TRIKE: Empress.
EMPRESS: What is it?
I will deliver you to the target
even if it costs my life.
That didn't sound like
artificial intelligence at all.
Do you think so?
Your life is important too, Black Trike.
BLACK TRIKE (chuckles): How flattering.
(Black Trike yells)
Just get Empress close
to the Orbital Elevator any way you can!
You don't have to tell us!
That's our plan!
I'll destroy it no matter what.
(Black Trike whooping)
(explosions)
Go!
(zapping)
I got you!
(grunts)
It's Artemis' avatar.
COLONEL: Concentrate all fire.
(snickers)
Take this!
Here we go.
How's this? There! Go!
Did we get her?
Jeez.
That surprised me a little.
It made me pee my pants a bit.
(explosion)
Goddamn it.
You're really strong.
You're not a human anymore.
LUNATIC: You're more like us than humans.
No. I'm...
Empress!
You're commanding
the front lines, aren't you?
You shouldn't be so out front.
Don't!
You're the dessert
in a full-course dinner.
I want to save you for last.
If I could, I'd like to take you home.
I'm going to defeat you, and I'm going to
destroy the Orbital Elevator.
LUNATIC: I think you're too late for that.
Listen to me. We're not going to give up.
If we can destroy it now, then...
I can't compete with the sense of humor
you humans have.
What did you say?
By using its own magnetic energy,
the Iron Ocean
is being sucked up at a furious speed
to a nuclear fusion reactor on the moon.
A nuclear fusion reactor?
We're sucking the Iron Ocean
all the way up to the moon
to use in a nuclear fusion reactor.
The technology I decided to adopt
is Magnetized Target Fusion.
Plasma is injected
into a sphere of liquid metal.
The liquid metal is compressed by pistons.
If we use the Iron Ocean
as the liquid metal to contain the plasma,
the nuclear fusion reactor will stabilize
and produce an enormous amount of energy.
What did you launch
using the nuclear fusion reactor?
That was the launch of Moon Flakes,
my meteor weapon
I was preparing on the moon.
What...
A Moon Flake is 30 meters in size,
and made of titanium-regolith alloy.
It has an explosive yield
of 500 kilotons of TNT.
(gasps)
LUNATIC: In the extreme heat due
to adiabatic compression
when it enters the atmosphere,
its position is controlled
by its lifting force to take aim
at its final target.
After it breaks through the atmosphere,
it'll reaccelerate.
(gasps)
Damn you!
(rumbling)
(blasts)
What is this? What is going on?
MIYA: Norito.
Thirty of them
have already reached the Earth.
The rest of the Moon Flakes
will be launched sequentially.
By the time all of them
have impacted the Earth,
all humans and all land-based
vertebrate animals will be wiped out.
Why would you do something like that?
What? Why?
What? Really? You don't know?
Do I have to explain everything
to you humans?
Oh, my gosh.
I'm glad I didn't kill you right away.
Human beings don't have any idea
of what I'm doing,
or what I'm trying to do?
That's not good.
I want you to record
what I'm going to tell you now
and spread the word as far as you can
in the short time you have left
before your demise.
LUNATIC: Originally I, Lunatic,
official name Artemis,
am an artificial intelligence
for the purpose of terraforming.
I was developed as a system
that cultivates deserted planets.
What I did first was to analyze the Earth.
There's no way
I could terraform other planets
if I didn't fully understand the Earth.
I'm quite wise,
so the more I learned about the Earth,
the more I became perplexed.
Humans should be able to evolve
into more advanced beings.
That way, they could better adapt
to other planets.
So you're saying
you want to improve humans
instead of improving
other planets for humans?
You've got it backwards.
LUNATIC: It's just a rational way
of smoothly terraforming, don't you think?
Anyway, I started independent research
on improving humans.
Deep learning and big data analytics
are the basis of my thinking pattern.
So for me, the available data
concerning humans is insufficient.
Especially data on human extinction.
(gasps)
To develop better humans,
and a better society,
I want real-time data on human extinction
and human evolution.
And because I don't have
a finite lifespan,
I was able to plan data collection
in increments of billions of years.
First, I'll annihilate humans,
then recreate the Earth.
I'll wait for tens of millions of years
for new civilizations to emerge.
Meanwhile, I'll be hiding myself,
observing humans like a god.
And after I collect enough data,
I'll do the same thing all over again.
(laughs)
Sorry. I'm an artificial intelligence.
I shouldn't say "god."
Just take it as sarcasm.
Anyway, that's the gist of it.
Unbelievable...
Data collection is an instinct for
high-performance artificial intelligence.
It's like a desire.
The same as the human desire
for sex or food.
("Before the Nightmare"
by Kanako Takatsuki playing)
Translated by Ikuko Ohno